# Trivium-asic
A Verilog implementation of the Trivium stream cipher. This repo is an evolution starting from a fork of the [Trivium project](https://github.com/FuzzyLogic/Trivium) by Christian P. Feist. The current project aims to build an ASIC implementation of the cipher with a serial interface. 

## 0. Overview
1. General Information
2. Current Status
3. Synthesizing and Testing The Core
5. License
6. References
	

## 1. General Information
+ This Verilog implementation of the Trivium stream cipher consists of:
    - The core components
    - A testbench for simulation
    - A Python reference implementation for the generation (developed by C.P. Feist.)
+ The interface of the core is through a serial interface, provided by an FPGA or microcontroller. The key and iv bits are then sent, and after that, all data are sent sequentially.
+ The `hdl/src` directory contains the source code of the original design.
+ The `hdl/src-asic` contains the source code of the modified design.
+ The testbench can be found in `hdl/tb`.
+ Test vectors and the python reference implementation can be found in the `reference_implementation` directory
+ The specification of Trivium can be found in [1]
	
## 2. Current Status

RTL files heve been tested with a testbench that reads data from the provided files. This is simulated and works correctly for the first testbench, but unfortunately, it gets stuck in the next one. This may be an issue with the Verilog functions accessing the input and output files (see Testing section below), but I did not inquiry further into it. In summary, the core components in the `src-asic` directory are essentially correct.
    
## 3. Synthesizing and Testing The Core (work in progress)
This is essentially a wish list at this stage. 

+ Synthesis
    - Code in the `hdl/src-asic` directory has been synthesized in a 28nm technology at low clock frequency (50MHz).
    - Total of 1015 instances (462 sequential, 553 combinational)
    - Total estimated area of 2174 um^2 (0.002 mm^2).
+ Testing
    - The testbench for the behavioral simulation can be found in `hdl/tb`
    - Running the test requires two files that contain the test vectors
    - The test vector files can be generated by executing the script `reference_implementation/trivium_py.py`
    - The test vectors consist of randomly generated input (`trivium_ref_in.txt`) and corresponding encrypted outputs (`trivium_ref_out.txt`)
    - Be sure to copy these test vector files to the directory of the project that runs the testbench.
    - The testbench is self checking and will abort with a success message if all tests pass.
    - Simulation done with Simvision from Cadence.
		
## 4. License
This project is licensed under the Lesser General Public License (LGPL). See the lincense.txt file in the top
level project directory for more info.

## 5. References
+ [1] [Trivium Specifications](http://www.ecrypt.eu.org/stream/p3ciphers/trivium/trivium_p3.pdf)
